app/now/page.mdx, before:

# Now

- I’m working full time for [Gigs](https://gigs.com) as an interim team lead (we're hiring 🤫)
- I'm in the midsts of relocating to Copenhagen, Denmark
- Learning Danish
- Working on a private mastodon client on the side
- Reading [12 Rules for Live](https://lesetagebu.ch/buch/12-rules-for-life)
- Reading [Staff Engineer](https://lesetagebu.ch/buch/staff-engineer)
- Reading [How to think clearly](https://lesetagebu.ch/buch/the-art-of-thinking-clearly)
- Reading [Animal Farm](https://lesetagebu.ch/buch/animal-farm)
- Reading The Bible (New Living Translation)

Last updated: 31st August, 2024

<br />

# History

## 1st January, 2024

- I’m working full time for [Gigs](https://gigs.com) (we're hiring 🤫)
- Trying to spend a lot of time with my family since we just had our second child.
- Working on [RapidList](https://rapidlist.xyz), a simple todo list app that I built to fit my needs
- Reading [Masters of Doom](https://lesetagebu.ch/buch/masters-of-doom)
- Reading [Founders at work](https://lesetagebu.ch/buch/founders-at-work)
- Reading a lot of essays online

export default function MDXPage({ children }) {
  return <div className="prose dark:prose-invert">{children}</div>

}

export const metadata = {
  title: 'Now - Chris Jarling',
  description:
    "A short overview of what I'm currently up to, updated irregularly",
}

Commit message:

Add work history (#89)
* Update now

* Add work history

app/now/page.mdx, after:

# Now

- I’m working full time for [Gigs](https://gigs.com) as an engineering manager
- Taking a week off work
- Learning Danish
- Reading "The Fourth Turning"
- Reading "The Hard Thing about Hard Things"
- Reading The Bible (New Living Translation)

Last updated: 2nd April, 2025

<br />

# History

## 31st August, 2024

- I’m working full time for [Gigs](https://gigs.com) as an interim team lead (we're hiring 🤫)
- I'm in the midsts of relocating to Copenhagen, Denmark
- Learning Danish
- Working on a private mastodon client on the side
- Reading [12 Rules for Live](https://lesetagebu.ch/buch/12-rules-for-life)
- Reading [Staff Engineer](https://lesetagebu.ch/buch/staff-engineer)
- Reading [How to think clearly](https://lesetagebu.ch/buch/the-art-of-thinking-clearly)
- Reading [Animal Farm](https://lesetagebu.ch/buch/animal-farm)
- Reading The Bible (New Living Translation)

## 1st January, 2024

- I’m working full time for [Gigs](https://gigs.com) (we're hiring 🤫)
- Trying to spend a lot of time with my family since we just had our second child.
- Working on [RapidList](https://rapidlist.xyz), a simple todo list app that I built to fit my needs
- Reading [Masters of Doom](https://lesetagebu.ch/buch/masters-of-doom)
- Reading [Founders at work](https://lesetagebu.ch/buch/founders-at-work)
- Reading a lot of essays online

export default function MDXPage({ children }) {
  return <div className="prose dark:prose-invert">{children}</div>

}

export const metadata = {
  title: 'Now - Chris Jarling',
  description:
    "A short overview of what I'm currently up to, updated irregularly",
}
