---
title: Learnings Week 11/2018
date: '2018-03-18 21:07 +0100'
tags: diary learning vim javascript
---

For some weeks now, I keep a folder in my bookmarks bar named "Learned this
week". Whenever I stumble upon something interesting I learn during the week, I
save the according page there. Aditionally, I keep a note in Bear for everything
I learn that is not savable as a bookmark (i.e. is not a Webpage). Usually on
sundays, I comb through that folder and the notes and prepare everything so that
I can possibly come back at it later.  
I used to do this for myself, in private, but I might as well do it here.

This week is rather short on content, since I dove into React Native for the
most part and did not really go much deeper than the documentation and some
usual pitfalls. There's two things though:

### [Why is using “for…in” with array iteration a bad idea?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/500504/why-is-using-for-in-with-array-iteration-a-bad-idea)

I tend to forget the right way to loop over an Array / an Object in JavaScript
about every 3 to 6 Months. While I was refreshing my memory on the topic, I also
stumbled across this question on StackOverflow.

### [Demystifying Multi-file Searches in Vim and the command line](https://seesparkbox.com/foundry/demystifying_multi_file_searches_in_vim_and_the_command_line)

I've been using vim exclusively for more than two weeks now, and it's going
pretty well. When I was pairing with a co-worker on Friday and he told me to do
a project-wide search for a string, I had to open Sublime Text for the first
time since moving to vim.  
In an effort to avoid future embarrassements, I did some research on searching
project-wide in vim. I always thought I'd need a plugin like the silver searcher
for that, but vim actually provides satisfactory methods by itself.
