---
layout: post
title: 'Learnings #1'
date: '2022-05-28 15:07 +0200'
tags: learnings
---

## What this is

I currently have two problems. Let me tell you.

I learn a lot of things in a day. Most of them are loosely related to software development, but there are other topics I learn about as well. For some of those, I write articles on this site. But most of the things I learn feel too small to write a distinct blog post for.  
I write those things down in my note taking app (currently Roam Research) and transfer some of them over to my [knowledge base](https://wiki.christianpoplawski.de) (this process is _very_ bulky and I'm thinking about how to make this easier), but I don't write about them on this site, since they feel too insignificant. That's the first problem.

The second problem is that I would love to publish more on this page, but I only have limited time during the week. Writing a longer article (like [Using sass variables for svg background-image fill](https://christianpoplawski.de/blog/2022/sass-background-svg-escape-color)) can take up two or three evenings.

Luckily, there is a simple solution for both problems: Squeeze mutliple things I learned into a single article. This way, I will have the feeling that it contains sufficient information to be published and I don't have to invest too much time since I already wrote up most of the things anyways.

So, this is what this is.

## The actual thing

### Rails testing

I was in the situation that my tests were running, but there was no output at all. Just stuck in what seemd to be an infinite loop. There's a couple of things I picked up on the way to fixing this.

#### Rails test logs

Logs from the tests are saved to `logs/test.log`. So `tail -f logs/test.log` can give you a good hint on what is happening.  
Also, [this](https://makandracards.com/makandra/75416-how-to-get-a-backtrace-if-rspec-or-any-other-ruby-process-hangs-with-no-output) can help you getting a backtrace if a ruby process hangs without output.

Looking at the logs, I realized that the tests froze after a few database queries. So I decided to look at the database next.

### Mysql Metadata locking

Mysql uses metadata locking to manage concurrent access to database objects ([Docs](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/metadata-locking.html)).  
You can get a full list of processes running using `SHOW FULL PROCESSLIST;`.  
`show processlist` yields a cleaner view. In my case, there ware a dozen or so processes, all with the state `Waiting for table metadata lock`. Killed all of them and tests were working again.  
[This StackOverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19801139/mysql-permanently-getting-waiting-for-table-metadata-lock/60357929#60357929) goes into a lot more detail on this.

### The RSS specification

After deciding that I want to read less social media and more blogposts, I started to fill up [Reeder](https://reederapp.com/) again. For the last week or so it has pretty much replaced all my social media consumption.

I took this chance to also look in the [RSS Specification](https://validator.w3.org/feed/docs/rss2.html) and build a small (and currently non-fucntional) RSS-Parser myself. The specification is a lot simpler then I thought.

Here's the basic markup:

```xml
<rss version="2.0">
  <channel>
    ...
    <item></item>
    <item></item>
    ...
  </channel>
</rss>
```

Both the `<channel>` and the `<item>` elements have a lot of child elements, however, only a handful of those are reuired.

#### Channel:

- `<title>`: The name of the channel
- `<link>`: The URL to the html site
- `<description>`: The, well, description

#### Item:

The item is a little more complex. It can have either the `<description>` and the `<link>` or only the `<description>` if it contains the complete story. That means that all elements of the item are optional, but at least the title or the description must be present.

### Random stuff

#### Articles

- [It's not my job](https://blog.dbsmasher.com/2022/05/24/not-my-job.html): As as senior leader, is everything your job?
- [Why blog?](https://cagrimmett.com/thoughts/2022/04/26/why-blog/): About the andvantages of blogging. Me reading that article and writing this one might have a correlation
- [indieblog.page](https://indieblog.page/): On my quest to fill my RSS reader with enough things to make it more interesting than TikTok while I'm on the toilet, this was a huge help.

#### Podcasts

- [The art of manliness #805: How to Get Your Anger Under Control](https://www.artofmanliness.com/character/behavior/how-to-get-your-anger-under-control-podcast/): An interview with Dr. Chip Tafrate about anger. What it is, if it is good or bad and how to get it under control if it has a negative influence on your life.

#### Books

Currently reading _A brief history of humankind_. Learned that the Agrarian Revolution, often referred to as a milestone in human history, was actually a bad deal. Humans worked more, had less time and also less food (because more children were born) that was less healthy.
