---
title: The cable and my car
date: '2024-08-22T21:57:26.271Z'
excerpt: I've had issues with my car for about three years now and spent a small fortune getting it fixed. It was repaired for 15 bucks the other day
tags: life car
slug: car-cable
draft: true
---

My car has been acting up for the better part of the last 3 or 4 years now. It has
been a wild ride of symptoms, attemps to fix them, periods where I though it was fixed
only to discover it wasn't and the actual fix.

I want to start this story by apologizing to my car: Over the whole odure of this,
I have called you junk and even kicked your tires a time or two. I now know what
caused the issues and it wasn't you. I'm sorry for doubting you. Thanks for taking
me where I needed to go for the past 5 years.

Next, I need to add a disclaimer: This story is about a car and its issues. I have
no clue about cars, so there will be words in here that are unpercise or downright
incorrect. Please bear with me.

With that out of the way and a pure conscience, let's jump into it.

It all started with the car not starting. It wasn't the usual "not starting" that you know
though. In general, there seem to be two widespread causes for a car not staring: Empty battery
and a broken starter.  
With an empty battery, you usually get either nothing or its audibly hard for the
battery to turn the starter. This is where the car will make a whining sound. In
severe cases, you won't have any current and can't even start the ignition.  
With a broken starter, the car will usually clack and then nothing happens.

That's the two kinds of starting issues I've experienced in my life so far. However,
this one was different.
